Christ was a Seventh-day Adventist ,to all intents and purposes MM 49.4
God is love 
All powers are given unto me of heaven and earth 28:18 Matthew
God wants the teachers in our schools to be efficient. If they are advanced in spiritual understanding, they will feel that it is important that they should not be deficient in the knowledge of the sciences. Piety and a religious experience lie at the very foundation of true education. But let none feel that having an earnestness in religious matters is all that is essential in order to become educators. While they need no less of piety, they also need a thorough knowledge of the sciences. This will make them not only good, practical Christians, but will enable them to educate the youth, and at the same time they will have heavenly wisdom to lead them to the fountain of living waters. He is a Christian who aims to reach the highest attainments for the purpose of doing others good. Knowledge harmoniously blended with a Christlike character will make a person truly a light to the world. God works with human efforts. All those who give all diligence to  make their calling and election sure, will feel that a superficial knowledge will not fit them for positions of usefulness. Education balanced by a solid religious experience, fits the child of God to do his appointed work steadily, firmly, understandingly. If one is learning of Jesus, the greatest educator the world ever knew, he will not only have a symmetrical Christian character, but a mind trained to effectual labor. Minds that are quick to discern will go deep beneath the surface. CE 51.1

 God will accept of nothing short of the whole heart. CE 50.2


The strength of the temptation to indulge appetite can be measured only by the inexpressible anguish of our Redeemer in that long fast in the wilderness. He knew that the indulgence of perverted appetite would so deaden man's perceptions that sacred things could not be discerned. Adam fell by the indulgence of appetite; Christ overcame by the denial of appetite. And our only hope of regaining Eden is through firm self-control. If the power of indulged appetite was so strong upon the race, that, in order to break its hold, the divine Son of God, in man's behalf, had to endure a fast of nearly six weeks, what a work is before the Christian! Yet, however great the struggle, he may overcome. By the help of that divine power which withstood the fiercest temptations that Satan could invent, he too may be entirely successful in his warfare with evil, and at last may wear the victor's crown in the kingdom of God. CTBH 54.2


: appetite and passion must be brought under the control of the Holy Spirit CE 122.1

Set a guard over the appetite; teach your children by example as well as by precept to use a simple diet. Teach them to be industrious, not merely CE 165.3

 As in his human strength man could not resist the power of Satan's temptations, Jesus volunteered to undertake the work and to bear the burden for man, and overcome the power of appetite in his behalf. In man's behalf He must show self-denial, perseverance, and firmness of principle paramount to the gnawing pangs of hunger. He must show a power of control stronger than hunger and even death. Con 37.1

 The indulgence of appetite had been increasing and strengthening with every successive generation since Adam's transgression, until the race was so feeble in moral power that they could not overcome in their own  strength. Christ, in behalf of the race, was to overcome appetite by standing the most powerful test upon this point. He was to tread the path of temptation alone, and there must be none to help Him, none to comfort or uphold Him. Alone He was to wrestle with the powers of darkness. Con 36.3


It is a most difficult matter to unlearn the habits which have been indulged through life and have educated the appetite. The demon of intemperance is not easily conquered. It is of giant strength and hard to overcome CG 408.3

In every sense of the word , Christ was a medical missionary . He came as the healer of the bodies as well as the souls of Human beings .His message was that the obedience to the laws of the kingdom of God would bring men and women health and prosperity CH 317.4  (Counsel on Health)

every command and in every promise of the word of God is the power, the very life of God, by which the command may be fulfilled and the promise realized. He who by faith receives the word is receiving the very life and character of God. LHU 69.5


The gospel is a wonderful simplifier of life”s problems .Its instruction , heeded , would make plain many a perplexity and save us from many an error. It teaches us to estimate things at their true value and to give the most effort to the things of greatest worth - the things that will endure.  MH 363.1 

God is love , His nature , His Law  is love . It ever has been it ever shall be . PP 33.1

In reviewing our past history , after having travelled over every step of advance to our present standing , I can say praise to God . As I see what the Lord has wrought in our lives , am filled with astonishment and confidence in Christ as the Leader. We have nothing to fear for the future except as we shall forget how the Lord has led us in the past and His teachings in our past history.	LDE 72.6		 

Those who study the Bible , counsel with God and rely upon Christ, will be enabled to act wisely at all times and under all circumstances LHU 336.2
If studied and Obeyed , the Word of God works in the heart subduing every unholy attribute COL 100.1
And God spake all these words saying ,  I AM  the LORD thy God which brought thee out of the land of Egypt , out of the house of bondage . Thou shalt have no other gods before me , thou shalt not make unto thyselves any graven image that is  like anything that is in the Heaven above, or is in the earth beneath or that is the waters under the earth. Thou shalt not bow thy-selves unto them nor worship them . For the LORD thy God is a jealousy God , visiting iniquities of the fathers upon the children unto third and fourth generations of them that hate Me , and Shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love Me. Thou shalt not take the name of the  LORD thy God in vain for the LORD shalt not hold him guiltless that take His name in vain.Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy .six days shalt thou labour and do all thy works , but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD thy God , in it, thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son ,nor  thy daughter ,thy  manservant , nor thy maidservant  , thy cattle , nor thy strangers that is within thy gates . For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth , the sea and all that in them is and Rested on the seventh day wherefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it . Honour thy father and mother that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not commit murder . Thou shalt not commit adultery ]
Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false witnesses against thy neighbour . Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house , thou shalt not covet thy neighbors wife , nor his manservant nor his maidservant , nor his ox , nor his ass nor anything that belongs to your neighbors . 

God placed Adam and Eve in paradise and surrounded them with everything that was useful and lovely. He planted for them a beautiful garden in which no herb , nor flower nor tree was lacking that might be for the use or ornament . Paradise delighted their senses but this was not enough , they must have something to call into play the wonderful machinery of the human being . Had happiness consisted in doing nothing , man in his state of holy innocence would have been left unemployed . But He formed man , knew what would be for his best happiness , and he no sooner created him than He gave him his appointed work. A life of useful labor is indispensable for the physical, mental and moral - well being . CTBH 96.2

Prayer is indispensable and irreplaceable . 

Fidelity and serenity of the mind  can only be maintained by watchfulness and prayer.

If the thoughts are wrong ,the feelings will be wrong and the thoughts and feelings combined together form a moral character. Mar 222.2

If studied and obeyed , the word of God works in the heart subduing every unholy attribute. COL 100.1

If the servant of Christ will believed his words and practise them , there is no science in the Natural world that he will not be able to grasp and understand. COL 125.1

Study the word , practise the word for this is thy life. CSW 43.2

Fear thou not , for I AM with you , neither be ye dismayed for I am your God , I will strenghten thee yea I will help thee yea , I will uphold thee with the my hand of righteousness . Isaiah 41:10

The Lord is my shepherd , I shall not want ,He maketh me to lie down in green pastures , he leadeth me beside the still waters . He restoreth my soul . HE leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for His name sake . Thou I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I shall fear no evil. For Thou art with me. Thou preparest a table in the mine enemies , Thou anointest my head with oil , my cup overruneth . Surely  goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Psalms 23:1-6

O that were such  a heart in them , that would fear me and keep all my commandments ,That it could be well with them and their children children forever. Deuteronomy 5:29

“If your christianity is kinda of Christianity that appeals to your emotions and makes you  feel good and not making you good is not christianity “PLM Lumumba 

I lift up mine eyes upon the hills , whence does mine help come? My help come from the LORD which made heaven and earth . He will not suffer thy foot to be moved . He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold He that keepeth Israel shalt not slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper and thy shade upon thy right hand side. The sun shalt not smite thee by day nor the moon by night . The Lord shalt preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shalt preserve thy  going out and thy coming in from this time forth and for ever more. 121 Psalms 1-8

The fear of the man bringeth a snare but the he who trusteth in the LORD shall  not be shamed . 29:27 
Proverbs

For I know that is in my flesh dwelleth nothing good. 7 :18 Romans

Grand us help from trouble for vain and useless is help of man .Through God we shall do valiantly for it is  He that shall tread down all our enemies. 60:11-12 Psalms


The warfare against self is  the greatest battle ever fought , surrendering to self , yielding SC 43.2 

MCP  vol2 page 601.4  That which seems to be difficult at first , by constant repetition it grows easier and the right thoughts and action becomes  habitual. 

Delight thyself in the Lord and He shall fulfill the desires of thine heart 37Paslms 4 

Lord , How are they increased that trouble me . Many  are they that rise up against me . Many there be which say of my soul there is no help for him in the Lord . But thou O Lord art my shield for me, my glory  and the Lifter up of mine head . I cried unto the Lord with my voice and He heard me out of His Holy  hill . I laid me down and slept , I a waked for the LORD sustained me. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me round about . Arise Oh Lord , save me  oh my God . For thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone . Thou hast broken down the teeth of the ungodly . Salvation belongs to God . Thy blessings is upon thy people.
3:1-8 of Psalms 

What time I am afraid , I will trust in the LORD 56:3 psalms


The strongest argument in favour of the gospel is a loving and a lovable christian 

Higher than the human thoughts can reach is God ideal for His children . Godliness , godlikeness is the goal to be reached . ED 18.4

A Christian life is deterministic and not probabilistic C.R.Steve
Every youth should be impressed by this fact that he is not his own that is, his time, his  strength , his talent.  it should be his chief purpose in life to glorify God and to do good to his fellow men HS 285.4

“And the scripture cannot be broken” John 10:35

The Bible contains the mind of God ,the state of the man, the way of salvation ,the doom of sinners and the happiness of believers . Its doctrines are holy ,its precepts are binding ,its histories are true,and its decision are immutable. Read it to be wise ,believe it to be safe and practise it to be holy.It contains light to direct you, food to support you and comfort to cheer you.  It is the traveler’s map , the pilgrim’s staff , the ‘pilot’s compass , the soldier’s sword and the christian’s  charter. Here paradise is restored ,Heaven opened an the gates of hell disclosed.   Christ is its grand subject , our good design and the glory of God its end.    It should fill the memory , rule the heart and guide the feet. Read it slowly , frequently and prayerfully . It is a mine of wealth , a paradise of glory ,and a river of pleasure .It is given you in life , will be opened at the judgement ,and be remembered forever . It involves the highest responsibility , will reward the greatest labor ,and will condemn all who trifle wit its sacred contents . 
 
Repetition deepens impression

And he said , that which cometh out of the man , that defileth  a man 7:20 Mark

Each day is uncertain in certain way

EV 375.  When a soul is truly  reconverted let that soul be baptized. 

4:22 Jeremiah 
7 : 20 Mark>>That which cometh out  the  man that defileth the man. Alcohol does not defile you but the root of the defilement is from the within . inside out . you begin to defile yourself from within as you progress outward.
7:9 Isaiah
3:10 Jeremiah
11:33 Romans


To some he was connected with ………..tenderly

“A thus saith the Lord should not be set a side by a thus saith the state or a thus saith the Church.”

Sanctification is the result of life long obedience to God LDE 276.3

That man has nothing to do but to believe , is a fallacy and a most dangerous doctrine.  RH October 30, 1888, par.4
We are required to put as much more earnestness into our religious life than into our common, business life, as heavenly treasure is of more value than earthly.  RH October 30,  1888, par. 5

COL 38.1 In every command and in every promise

The creative energy that called the world into existence is in the word of God  , The word imparts power it begets life . Every command is a promise . Accepted by the will , received into the soul it brings the life of the infinite One . It  transforms the nature and recreates the soul in the image of God  Ed 126.4 / FLB 20.6/ LHU 56.4

2:9 Colossians 

We may keep so near to God , that in every unexpected trial our thoughts will turn to Him as naturally  as the flowers turn to the Sun . SC 99.4
With the word of God in his hand , every human being may have such companio ….Ed 127.1
If studied and obeyed the word of God works in the heart subduing /surmounting every unholy attribute CoL 100.1
For the Lord is good , His mercies is everlasting His truth endureth to all generation . Psalms 100:5

Again the word of the Lord came unto me saying , son of man cause Jerusalem to know her abominations . And say, Thus saith the Lord God ,Thy birth and thy nativity is of the Land of Canaan , Thy father was an Ammorite , thy mother an Hittite. And as of thy nativity when thou was born , Thy navel was not cut neither was thou washed in water to supple thee. Thou wast not salted at all nor was swaddled at all. None eye pitied thee , to do these unto thee, to have  compassion upon thee but thou wast cast in to the open field ,to the loathing of thy person . When thou wast born. 
And when I passed by thee and saw thee polluted in thy own blood , I said unto thee when thou was in thine blood , Live yea I said unto thee when thou was in thine blood Live.  I have caused thee to multiply as the bud of the field . Thou has increased and waxen great. Thou art become an excellent ornament . Thy breasts have fashioned and thine hair has grown whereas thou was naked and bare. 
Now when I passed by thee and looked upon thee , Behold , thy time was the time of love. I spread my skirt over thee and covered thy nakedness . Yea I sweared unto thee and entered into a covenant with thee. Thus says the LORD . and thou became-st mine. Then washed I thee with water .I thoroughly washed away thy blood from thee . I anointed thee with oil. Ezekiel 16:1----

Sc 62.2 If you give yourself to Him and accept him as your saviour then  sinful as your life may have been for His sake you are accounted righteous. Christ”s character stands in place of your character , and you are accepted before God just as if you had not sinned .Sc 62.2

To disbelief what God said is to call God a liar. If we receive the witness of men , the witness of God is greater :for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of His Son. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself :he that believeth not God hath made him a liar ; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son.And this is the record , that God hath given  to us eternal life , and this life is in His Son. 5:9-11 1st John ,
For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world .And this is the victory that overcometh the world even our faith. 5:4   1st John 
Satan takes control of every mind that is not decidedly under the control of the Spirit of God 1MCP 13.2
If thou faintest during the time of calamity , thou art weak 24:10  Proverbs 

God is not perplexed with the multiplicity of our cares neither is He overwhelmed by their weight
SC 86.1 

As the moon and  the stars of the solar system shine by the reflected light of the sun , so , as far as their teaching is true , do the world’s great thinkers reflect the rays of the Sun of Righteousness . Every gem of thought , every flash of the intellect , is from the Light of the world.
DA 464.4

Sabbath keeping is connected with weekly excellence 1:31 Genesis---Pr.Randy Skeete

Christ will be the science and the song of the redeemed soul LHU 40.4

Without difficult days we will not see God’s glory ,without the Red sea there would not be the parting of the Red sea , without hunger there would be no manna , without thirst no water from the rock , without great heat , no pillar of cloud by day, without freezing cold there would be no pillar of fire by night . Sometimes your Loving Father permits trials in your life in order that He might create condition in which to demonstrate His power. Thank God for trials . 1st Peter 4 :15

For there is not a just man upon earth , that doeth good ,and sinneth not 7:20 Ecclessiates

Pp 202 &  GC 619  Jacobs time of trouble . 

And shall not God avenge His own elect who cry unto Him day and night ? Though He bears long with them. I tell you He will speedily avenge them , but when the Son of man cometh will he find faith on earth? Luke 18:7-8
Aspire to inspire the coming  generation .

On that day the  Lord magnified Joshua in the sight  of all Israel ;and the feared him , as they feared Moses , all the days of his life  4:14 Joshua
And the Lord repented of the evil which He thought to do unto His people . 32:14 Exodus
The Greatest insult to God is to doubt His word

“Blind By self” Living with all the evidence displaying the Prove that God is not there
God is not a man that he should lie ; ----so man do lie 23:19 Numbers

God is the King am His son hence am the prince

Every youth should be impressed by this fact that he is not his own, that is his strength , his time and his talent.It should be his chief purpose in life to glorify God and do good to his fellow beings. 
Hs 285.4

And all mine are thine and all thine are mine and am glorified in them. 17:10 John

HC 66.2 & DA 693.3



